
# V1 Release

This repository contains the official implementation of the KDD 2025 paper *“Generative Next POI Recommendation with Semantic ID.”*

The following components are already available:

---

### **RQ-VAE Module**

The core implementation of the Residual Vector Quantized Variational Autoencoder (RQ-VAE) is provided.

* using `code/train_rqvae.py` to train a custom codebook.
* After training, use `codebook.py` to generate the mapping from discrete token IDs to semantic IDs.

---

### **Sample Dataset**

A sample dataset based on the **NYC** check-in data is included for demonstration and evaluation.

We directly adopt the preprocessed dataset from **LLM4POI**:  
https://github.com/neolifer/LLM4POI/tree/main

To reproduce our data pipeline, please follow the steps below:

1. **Download the dataset**  
   Download the dataset from the LLM4POI repository.

2. **Generate POI metadata**  
   Run the following notebook to obtain `poi_info.csv`: `V1/datasets/dataprocess.ipynb`

3. **Generate Semantic IDs (SIDs)**  
Execute the codebook quantization module to obtain SID representations for POIs.

4. **Prepare LLM training data**  
Run the following notebook to construct the final dataset for LLM fine-tuning: `V1/datasets/llm_dataprocess.ipynb`

---

### **Model Fine-tuning**

Model fine-tuning is conducted using the [LLaMA-Factory](https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory) framework.
You can reproduce the fine-tuning and evaluation workflows using our processed datasets, following the official instructions provided in the LLaMA-Factory repository.

---

### **Cite Us**

```bibtex
@inproceedings{wang2025generative,
  title={Generative Next POI Recommendation with Semantic ID},
  author={Wang, Dongsheng and Huang, Yuxi and Gao, Shen and Wang, Yifan and Huang, Chengrui and Shang, Shuo},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V. 2},
  pages={2904--2914},
  year={2025}
}
```
